shree Australian planes to cuff and on
on Saturday for a third day of scouring
the desolate southern Indian Ocean for
possible paths of missing Malaysia
Airlines flight 370 now asked for two
full weeks Australia promised its best
efforts to resolve in extraordinary
riddle but two days of searching the
Seas about 2,500 kilometers 1,550 miles
southwest of Perth have not produced any
evidence a satellite spotted two large
objects in the area earlier this week
raising hopes of finding the Boeing 777
there disappeared the eighth of March
with 239 people on board it's about the
most inaccessible spot that you could
imagine on the face of the earth but if
there is anything down there we will
find it Prime Minister Tony Abbott said
at a news conference in Papua New Guinea
view it to the families and the friends
and the loved ones of the almost 240
people on flight MH 370 to do everything
we can to try to resolve what is as yet
in extraordinary riddle he added a total
of six aircraft were to search the
region Saturday to ultra-long range
commercial jets and for Pete sridhar ons
the Australian Maritime Safety Authority
said because of the distance to the area
the Orions will have enough fuel to
search for two hours while the
commercial jets can stay for five hours
before heading back to the base to
merchant ships were in the area and the
HMAS success a navy supply ship was due
to arrive late Saturday afternoon
weather in the search zone was expected
to be relatively good with some cloud
cover two Chinese aircraft are expected
to arrive in Perth on Saturday to joy
in the search and two Japanese planes
will arrive Sunday a small flotilla of
ships from china wrist is several days
away the plane passengers included 154
chinese am so officials also worth
checking to see if there was any new
satellite imagery that could provide
more information the satellite images
were taken the 16th of March but the
search in the area did not start until
Thursday because it took time to analyze
them in kuala lampur where the plane
took off for Beijing Malaysian Defense
Minister Hishammuddin Hussein called the
process a long haul as he thanked the
more than two dozen countries involved
in a search that stretches from
Kazakhstan in Central Asia to the
southern Indian Ocean searches and
Friday relied mostly on trained spotters
aboard the planes rather than radar
which found nothing Thursday Australian
officials said the search will focus
more on visual sightings because
civilian aircraft are being brought in
the military planes will continue to use
both radar and spotters noting that we
got no radar detection yesterday we have
real planned the search to be visual so
aircraft flying relatively low very
highly skilled and trained observers
looking out of the aircraft windows in
looking to see objects said John Young
manager of the maritime safety
Authority's emergency response division
Malaysia asked the US for undersea
surveillance equipment to help in the
search said rear ADM John Kirby a
pentagon spokesman defense secretary
Chuck Hagel promised to assess the
availability of the technology and its
usefulness in the search Kirby said the
Pentagon says it has spent 2.5 million
dollars to operate ships and aircraft
often the search and his budgeted
another 1.5 million dollars for the
efforts there is a limited battery life
for the beacons in the cockpit voice in
flight data recorders about 30 days said
Chuck Schofield vice president of
business development for Duquesne cecum
incorporated he said it's very likely
that his company made the beacons on the
missing jet the devices work to a depth
of 20,000 feet 6096 meters with a signal
range of about two nautical miles 2.3
miles 3.7 kilometers depending on
variables like sea conditions the
signals are located using a device
operated on the surface of the water
auto to a depth experts say it is
impossible to tell if the grainy
satellite images of the two objects 1 24
meters almost 80 feet long and the other
measuring 5 meters 15 feet were debris
from the plane but officials have called
this the best lead so far in the search
that began the 8th of March after the
plane vanished over the Gulf of Thailand
on an overnight flight to Beijing for
relatives of those are bought a plane
hope was slipping away said nanjan iron
sister-in-law of passenger and Ling I am
psychologically prepared for the worst
and I know the chances of them coming
back alive are extremely small said man
one of dozens of relatives gathered at a
Beijing hotel awaiting any word about
their loved ones the norwegian cargo
vessel hoax st. Petersburg is also in
the area helping with the search harkins
vain a spokesman for the Norwegian ship
owners association said the ship that
searched a strip of ocean stretching
about 100 nautical miles 115 my
185 kilometers per craft pieces have
sometimes been found floating four days
after C crash Peter Marat zucchi an
aviation expert at the University of New
South Wales said the wing could remain
buoyant four weeks of fuel tanks inside
it were empty and had not filled with
water other experts said that if the
aircraft breaks into pieces normally
only items such as seats and luggage
would remain floating we seldom see big
metal pieces floating you need a lot of
buoyant material underneath the metal to
keep it up said Lau kaintuck an expert
in aircraft maintenance and accidents at
Hong Kong Polytechnic University
Malaysian authorities have not ruled out
any possible explanation for what
happened to the jet but have said the
evidence so far suggests it was
deliberately turned back across malaysia
to the Strait of Malacca with its
communications systems disabled they are
unsure what happened next police are
considering the possibilities of
hijacking sabotage terrorism or issues
related to the mental health of the
pilots or anyone else on board